README.md, before:

# GO INFRAST!
A simpler way to setup your golang project!

# Provided Module
here the module we provided for your project :
* Database (Postgre & Mongo)
* Encryption 
* Identifier
* JSON Web Token
* SMTP With Template Processor
* Payment Gateway
* Whatsapp
* Firebase
* User Management With Table Property Checker
* Middleware

# Basic Usage
## Step 1 : Installation
first add go-infrast package to your project, by using this command :
```
go get github.com/smokers10/go-infrast
```
## Step 2 : Configuration
here the example of configuration file you can follow :
```
application :
  port : :8000
  secret : your-encrypted-secret
postgres : 
  host : localhost
  port : 5432
  user : testuser
  password : your-encrypted-postgres-password
  db_name : testdb
  max_open_connections : 1
  max_idle_connections : 2
  connection_max_life_time : 2
mongodb : 
  uri : your-encrypted-mongo-uri
  max_pool : 10
  min_pool : 5
  max_idle_connections : 2
  db_name : testdb
smtp : 
  host : localhost
  password : your-encrypted-smtp-password
  username : testuser
  port : 5432
  sender : sender
midtrans :
  server_key : your-encrypted-midtrans-server-key
  iris_key : your-encrypted-midtrans-iris-key
  enabled_payments : 
    - bca-klik
    - bri
    - gopay
whatsapp :
  sid : wa-sid
  auth_token : encrypted-auth-token
  sender : +628<...>
firebase : 
  service_account_key : your-encrypted-service-account-key
```

<b> WARNING </b>
Some configuration value need to be encrypted such us:
- Application secret
- PostgreSQL password
- MongoDB URI
- SMTP password
- Midtrans server key
- Midtrans iris key
- Whatsapp auth token
- Firebase service account key

if you set mentioned config value with plain text it will give you error message, due to how we implement encryption on this package please use our provided tool [enigma](https://github.com/smokers10/enigma) for creating confidential configuration value.

### Step 3 : Initialize Infrast
here the code example on how to use infrast with fiber framework : 
```
package main

import (
	"github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
	infrast "github.com/smokers10/infrast/head"
)

func main() {
	app := fiber.New()
  key := os.GetEnv("aes-key-env-name")
  path := os.GetEnv("your-yaml-path")

	infrast, err := infrast.Head(path, key)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	configuration := infrast.Configuration

	app.Listen(configuration.Application.Port)
}

```
<b>Note</b> you can make your own AES key based on [this](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/aes#pkg-variables) documentation or use auto generated key by [enigma](https://github.com/smokers10/enigma)

# User Management & Middleware
## Step 1 : Configuration
To use user management & middleware you should add more configuration to your YAML file, here the configuration : 
```
user_management :
  user_credential : [
    {
      type : "ADMIN",
      user_table : "admins",
      credential : ["username", "email"],
      id_property : "id",
      photo_profile_property : "profile",
      password_property : "password",
      username_property : "username",
      email_property : "email",
      phone_property : "phone"
    },
    {
      type : "customer",
      user_table : "customers",
      credential : ["username", "email", "phone"],
      id_property : "id",
      photo_profile_property : "profile",
      password_property : "password",
      username_property : "username",
      email_property : "email",
      phone_property : "phone"
    },
  ]
  login : 
    table_name : "login"
    token_property : "token"
    failed_counter_property : "failed_attempt"
    type_property : "user_type"
    credential_property : "credential"
    login_at_property : "login_at"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    attempt_at_property : "attempt_at"
    max_failed_attempt : 3
    login_block_duration : 300
    email_template_path : "template/login-security-concern.html"
  user_device : 
    table_name : "user_devices"
    id_property : "id"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    user_id_property : "user_id"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
    email_template_path : "template/new-device-warning.html"
  registration : 
    table_name : "registration"
    id_property : "id"
    credential_property : "credential"
    token_property : "token"
    otp_property : "otp"
    registration_status_property : "status"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    created_at_property : "created_at"
    email_template_path : "template/registration.html"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
  reset_password : 
    table_name : "reset_password"
    id_property : "id"
    token_property : "token"
    otp_property : "otp"
    credential_property : "credential"
    created_at_property : "created_at"
    validity_duration : 900000
    email_template_path : "template/forgot-password.html"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
```
as you can see from yaml above you should have following table on your system <br>
1. User Table
2. Login Table
3. Registration Table
4. User Device Table
5. Reset Password Table

note : on each table you also need to define required property.
## Step 2 : Call User Management Or Middleware
```
package main

import (
	"github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
	infrast "github.com/smokers10/infrast/head"
)

func main() {
	app := fiber.New()
	infrast, err := infrast.Head("your-yaml-path", "your-aes-key")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	configuration := infrast.Configuration

  // call middleware
  infrast.Middleware("user type") // <-- this must equal to user_credential.type other wise it will return error

  // call user management
 infrast.UserManagement("user type") // <-- this must equal to user_credential.type other wise it will return error

	app.Listen(configuration.Application.Port)
}
```
# Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch
3. Commit your Changes 
4. Push to the Branch
5. Open a Pull Request

# Acknowledgments & Depedencies
The following packages were used in this project :
- golang jwt - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5)
- goolang uuid - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/google/uuid)
- lib pq - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/lib/pq)
- nyaruka phonenumbers - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/nyaruka/phonenumbers )
- stretchr testify - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/stretchr/testify)
- gotp - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/xlzd/gotp)
- mongo driver - [Repository / Package Page](go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver)
- crypto - [Repository / Package Page](golang.org/x/crypto)
- yaml - [Repository / Package Page](gopkg.in/yaml.v3)
- midtrans go - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/midtrans/midtrans-go)
- twillio go - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/twilio/twilio-go)
- firebase - [Repository / Package Page](firebase.google.com/go)
- and many more

# Author & Contributor

Nadzar Mutaqin - [instagram](https://www.instagram.com/vermillione666/) - [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nadzar-mutaqin-178a8b153/) - nadzarmutaqin4@gmail.com

<p><a href="#readme-top">back to top</a></p>

Commit message:

firebase tested & add user fcm token on user management config

README.md, after:

# GO INFRAST!
A simpler way to setup your golang project!

# Provided Module
here the module we provided for your project :
* Database (Postgre & Mongo)
* Encryption
* Identifier
* JSON Web Token
* SMTP With Template Processor
* Payment Gateway
* Whatsapp
* Firebase
* User Management
* Middleware

# How To Use
## Step 1 : Installation
first add go-infrast package to your project, by using this command :
```
go get github.com/smokers10/go-infrast
```
## Step 2 : Configuration
here the example of configuration file you can follow :
```
application :
  port : :8000
  secret : your-encrypted-secret
postgres : 
  host : localhost
  port : 5432
  user : testuser
  password : your-encrypted-postgres-password
  db_name : testdb
  max_open_connections : 1
  max_idle_connections : 2
  connection_max_life_time : 2
mongodb : 
  uri : your-encrypted-mongo-uri
  max_pool : 10
  min_pool : 5
  max_idle_connections : 2
  db_name : testdb
smtp : 
  host : localhost
  password : your-encrypted-smtp-password
  username : testuser
  port : 5432
  sender : sender
midtrans :
  server_key : your-encrypted-midtrans-server-key
  iris_key : your-encrypted-midtrans-iris-key
  enabled_payments : 
    - bca-klik
    - bri
    - gopay
whatsapp :
  sid : wa-sid
  auth_token : encrypted-auth-token
  sender : +628<...>
firebase : 
  service_account_key : your-encrypted-service-account-key
```

<b> WARNING </b>
Some configuration value need to be encrypted such us:
- Application secret
- PostgreSQL password
- MongoDB URI
- SMTP password
- Midtrans server key
- Midtrans iris key
- Whatsapp auth token
- Firebase service account key

if you set mentioned config value with plain text it will give you error message, due to how we implement encryption on this package please use our provided tool [enigma](https://github.com/smokers10/enigma) for creating confidential configuration value.

<b> How To Setup Firebase </b> <br>
As you can see the configuration required firebase service account key, to get that information please follow this instruction

1. Go to your firebase console then go to `project setting`.
2. Select `service account` tab.
3. On `firebase admin SDK` click `Generate new private key` button, it will show you modal pop up click `Generate Key` you will download a JSON file from firebase console.
4. After you downloaded the JSON, open the file and then encode all information inside using base64, you use [this](https://www.base64decode.org/) site to encode your private key.
5. encrypt your encoded private key using [enigma](https://github.com/smokers10/enigma).
6. Set encrypted private key to your configuration YAML.

### Step 3 : Initialize Infrast
here the code example on how to use infrast with fiber framework : 
```
package main

import (
	"github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
	infrast "github.com/smokers10/infrast/head"
)

func main() {
    app := fiber.New()
    key := os.GetEnv("aes-key-env-name")
    path := os.GetEnv("your-yaml-path")

	infrast, err := infrast.Head(path, key)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	configuration := infrast.Configuration

	app.Listen(configuration.Application.Port)
}

```
<b>Note</b> you can make your own AES key based on [this](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/aes#pkg-variables) documentation or use auto generated key by [enigma](https://github.com/smokers10/enigma)

# User Management & Middleware
## Step 1 : Configuration
To use user management & middleware you should add more configuration to your YAML file, here the configuration : 
```
user_management :
  user_credential : [
    {
      type : "ADMIN",
      user_table : "admins",
      credential : ["username", "email"],
      id_property : "id",
      photo_profile_property : "profile",
      password_property : "password",
      username_property : "username",
      email_property : "email",
      phone_property : "phone"
    },
    {
      type : "customer",
      user_table : "customers",
      credential : ["username", "email", "phone"],
      id_property : "id",
      photo_profile_property : "profile",
      password_property : "password",
      username_property : "username",
      email_property : "email",
      phone_property : "phone"
    },
  ]
  login : 
    table_name : "login"
    token_property : "token"
    failed_counter_property : "failed_attempt"
    type_property : "user_type"
    credential_property : "credential"
    login_at_property : "login_at"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    attempt_at_property : "attempt_at"
    max_failed_attempt : 3
    login_block_duration : 300
    email_template_path : "template/login-security-concern.html"
  user_device : 
    table_name : "user_devices"
    id_property : "id"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    user_id_property : "user_id"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
    email_template_path : "template/new-device-warning.html"
  registration : 
    table_name : "registration"
    id_property : "id"
    credential_property : "credential"
    token_property : "token"
    otp_property : "otp"
    registration_status_property : "status"
    device_id_property : "device_id"
    created_at_property : "created_at"
    email_template_path : "template/registration.html"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
  reset_password : 
    table_name : "reset_password"
    id_property : "id"
    token_property : "token"
    otp_property : "otp"
    credential_property : "credential"
    created_at_property : "created_at"
    validity_duration : 900000
    email_template_path : "template/forgot-password.html"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
  user_fcm_token :
    table_name : "user_fcm"
    id_property : "id"
    token_property : "token"
    timestamp_property : "timestamp"
    user_type_property : "user_type"
```
as you can see from yaml above you should have following table on your system <br>
1. User Table
2. Login Table
3. Registration Table
4. User Device Table
5. Reset Password Table

note : on each table you also need to define required property.
## Step 2 : Call User Management Or Middleware
```
package main

import (
	"github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
	infrast "github.com/smokers10/infrast/head"
)

func main() {
	app := fiber.New()
	infrast, err := infrast.Head("your-yaml-path", "your-aes-key")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	configuration := infrast.Configuration

  // call middleware
  infrast.Middleware("user type") // <-- this must equal to user_credential.type other wise it will return error

  // call user management
 infrast.UserManagement("user type") // <-- this must equal to user_credential.type other wise it will return error

	app.Listen(configuration.Application.Port)
}
```
# Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch
3. Commit your Changes 
4. Push to the Branch
5. Open a Pull Request

# Acknowledgments & Depedencies
The following packages were used in this project :
- golang jwt - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5)
- goolang uuid - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/google/uuid)
- lib pq - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/lib/pq)
- nyaruka phonenumbers - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/nyaruka/phonenumbers )
- stretchr testify - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/stretchr/testify)
- gotp - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/xlzd/gotp)
- mongo driver - [Repository / Package Page](go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver)
- crypto - [Repository / Package Page](golang.org/x/crypto)
- yaml - [Repository / Package Page](gopkg.in/yaml.v3)
- midtrans go - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/midtrans/midtrans-go)
- twillio go - [Repository / Package Page](github.com/twilio/twilio-go)
- firebase - [Repository / Package Page](firebase.google.com/go)
- and many more

# Author & Contributor

Nadzar Mutaqin - [instagram](https://www.instagram.com/vermillione666/) - [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nadzar-mutaqin-178a8b153/) - nadzarmutaqin4@gmail.com

<p><a href="#readme-top">back to top</a></p>
